Install/Deployment
==================

The webclient requires `npm`, the Node.js package manager (please
follow the instructions for installing from http://npmjs.org).  After
the initial `git clone/pull/update` of the code from the repo.  To
install the required Node packages (for testing, the UI, code checks,
etc.) need to run

```
npm install
```

This installs the latest required ``npm`` packages. You will *only*
need to re-run this if the package requirements (from ``package.json``
or required versions) have changed. Its important to run this command
after you pull changes from the repo if the actual ``package.json``
may has changed.


Development Environment
-----------------------

Since adding React to our toolkit (because of the needs and
requirements added by the MEGAchat), there is a new file
(``js/chat/bundle.js``) to be generated to run the code (it is not
available in the repository).

This file is generated by ``webpack``, and depending on the
environment you may run the webclient in development in two different
methods.

A simple script watches for changes in React UI related files,
generates required artifacts automatically (in memory, no files
generated), serves them (via HTTP), and updates the UI with changes
live (including relevant code reloads). This process is very fast,
easy and efficient. You will get this convenience just by running the
following:

```
./dev_server.sh
```


Demo/Beta Environment
---------------------

Those are mostly used for demonstrating something internally or on
https://beta.mega.nz. This type of deployment is basically done after
cloning the specific/target feature branch on the webserver via
SSH. The required React bundles (see above) are simply generated via a
script in place after installing the ``npm`` package dependencies:

```
install && ./build.sh
```

When doing updates to that folder on the server, just do a:

```
git pull -u && npm install && ./build.sh
```

That ensures that everything is consistently up to date.


Running a Development or Demo/Beta Environment
----------------------------------------------

The webclient will also require some ``localStorage`` variables set so
that it works as expected:

```
localStorage.d = 1;
localStorage.dd = 1;
localStorage.jj = 1;
// Will add a ?r=Date() to enforce browser cache to be disabled.
localStorage.jjnocache = 1;
```

You may find some prepared "``devboot``" HTML files for launch in the
``dont-deploy/`` folder.